---
character: Agent Coulson
style: Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D.
---
Coulson is a support character that gets the most benefit from being paired up with other countdown users. He'll never make the damage himself, but paired with repeated countdown makers, you will get a constant flow of AP and they'll go off multiple times a turn. If you have countdowns that need to finish quickly, he's your pal. If your countdowns never stop flowing, neither will the AP. If you need more countdowns or instances of damage to use strike tiles, enjoy them freely. This all refers to his passives though. Actives are a little hit and miss. His yellow generates some decent countdowns with so-so damage, but is often contested by other countdown users and the blue steal is both conditional and random. Never a bad idea to shoot them off though if you have nothing better. On the other hand, the purple is awesome with the ability to switch any normal tiles to make matches either to remove enemy items or just generate AP and cascades with little concern for board state. His build will be different depending on your team's strong suit. Whether he brings you to victory has a lot to do with who he's helping. Rainbow coverage will make the best use of the AP he brings if not relying on countdown synergy. 4/5/4 is his most popular build followed by 5/3/5, both of which have similar playstyles and slightly different strengths.  

{% include ap.html color='yellow' %} Active- There are three types of countdown generated by this. A 1-turn yellow Commander which make a strike tile. A 2-turn green Sniper which is a mid-range amount of single target damage that blows a 3x3 hole around it. A 2-turn purple Spy, which does team damage, but won't be considered much in the 4 star tier. At 5 covers, you will make two commander tiles instead of one along with damage and strength increases to all of the countdowns. The upside is that if you have team up AP and make a cascade, then most of them will fire the same turn they're generated thanks to the purple passive. This is Coulson’s only skill that generates his own countdowns so how many covers you put into this will depend on the team you put him on. 

{% include ap.html color='yellow' %} Passive- This generates  random colored AP every time a countdown tile reaches zero. This will benefit both from the active portion of this skill, the extras generated by his blue and any other countdowns you can generate. No reason to ever have this skill below 4 covers, but whether it's worth the 5 is very situational.

{% include ap.html color='purple' %} Active- Best active power Coulson has. The ability to switch any pair of normal tiles and have them turned into charged tiles has a wide range of uses. Use it to match away problem tiles that the enemy has put out or set up a match if there's special or team-up tiles in the way. Set up or just flat use it to make matches for AP generation. Most of the time you'll use it just to get one good match and leave the leftovers on the other side. But the ability to generate at least 5 AP of any color in most board states is the least you'll get from it. Often you'll get much more. At 5 covers, it also does some good damage in addition to the matches. 

{% include ap.html color='purple' %} Passive- It runs on team up AP, but will spend 2 AP to skip 2/1 turns of countdown timer. Most effective on repeating countdown tiles, but synergizes decently with his yellow and can be used to quickly get from 5 to 1 as it triggers every match there is team up AP for it to run on. Worth noting that there are some countdowns you want to keep on the board like Captain Marvel’s black, Spider-Woman’s black, Mr. Fantastic’s black and a few others so keep that in mind when you’re covering this power.

{% include ap.html color='blue' %} Active- Extremely lackluster steal of 3 random AP per countdown actively on the board. This could get up to fifteen, but if his passive purple has anything to do with it, your countdowns will be resolving before they build up. Has a chance of giving you the AP you really need, but not much of one. Repeated countdowns are the best way to meet the conditional. Luckily, the AP steal is spread out so, for example, if you have 5 countdown tiles out and use this ability to steal 15 random AP, it will steal 3 random AP 5 times rather than just stealing 15 of one random AP color. 

{% include ap.html color='blue' %} Passive- Generates a 1-turn countdowns tiles that deal damage when resolved passively after each and every friendly active ability. These can be a godsend, especially since they will benefit you twice, both damage and AP generation thanks to Coulson's own passives. Any champable level of it will be close enough to the same, but works best with frequent ability fires.
